releases: add TiDB 4.0.5 release notes (#3541)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-4.0.5.md

    - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor. [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)
    - Fix a panic on hash partition table when the query condition is that the partition column equals to a big number like 9223372036854775808 [#18186](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18186)
    - Refine the behavior of StrToInt and StrToFloat and support convert JSON to date, time and timestamp [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)
    - Fix the wrong behavior of char function. [#18122](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18122)
    - Ddl: fix admin repair table with range partition expr will parseInt fail [#17988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17988)
    - Fix wrong behavior of set charset statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)
    - Fix a bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of collation function. [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that TSO request may fail at the time of leader changing. [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when enabling placement rules, sometimes region replicas cannot schedule to optimal [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)
```

## Compatibility Changes

+ TiDB

    - Change drop partition and truncate partition's job args to support multi partition id array [#18930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18930)
    - Add delete only state for add partition replica check [#18865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18865)

## New Features

+ TiFlash

    - Support standard error code [#978](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/978)
    
+ TiKV

     - Define error code for errors [#8387](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8387)
     
## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the performance of decodePlan for big union query [#18941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18941)
    - Reduce GC scan locks when meeting region cache miss [#18876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18876)
    - Ease the impact of stats feedback on cluster [#18772](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18772)
    - Support cancel before RPC response return. [#18580](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18580)
    - Add HTTP API to generate TiDB metric profile. [#18531](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18531)
    - Fix the partition table issue in table scatter API. [#17863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17863)

>     - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in grafana.
    - Add runtime information for the batch-point-get executor [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)
    - Add executor runtime information for point-get. [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)
    - Warn potential deadlock for Consume in remove [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)
```

    - Fix a bug `getAutoIncrementID()` function does not consider the `tidb_snapshot` session variable, this bug may cause dumper tool fail with 'table not exist' error. [#18692](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18692)
    - Fix unknown column error for sql like `select a from t having t.a` [#18434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18434)
    - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor. [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)
    - Fix a panic on hash partition table when the query condition is that the partition column equals to a big number like 9223372036854775808 [#18186](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18186)
    - Refine the behavior of StrToInt and StrToFloat and support convert JSON to date, time and timestamp [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)
    - Fix the wrong behavior of char function. [#18122](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18122)
    - Ddl: fix admin repair table with range partition expr will parseInt fail [#17988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17988)
    - Fix wrong behavior of set charset statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)

>     - Fix a bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of collation function. [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of collation function. [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)
    - Fix STR_TO_DATE's handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
    - Fix issues of TiDB version information formation doesn't consistent with PD/TiKV in cluster_info table. [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)
```

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that TSO request may fail at the time of leader changing. [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)
    - Fix the issue that when enabling placement rules, sometimes region replicas cannot schedule to optimal [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)
    
+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters. [#971](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/971)
    - Fix bug: tiflash can not exit if any exception is thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)
    
+ TiKV

>     - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
    - Speed up leader election when hibernate region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)
```

    
## Others

+ TiDB

>     - Check the tiflash replica count when setting tiflash replica [#18943](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18943)
>     - When introduced in v4.0.3, `allow_auto_random_explicit_insert` could be set only for the SESSION scope. It can now be set also for the GLOBAL scope. [#18911](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18911)
>     - Add runtime information for the batch-point-get executor [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)
>     - Add executor runtime information for point-get. [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)
>     - Executor: modify the default value of actRows to be 0 instead of empty [#18806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18806)
>     - Types: fix STR_TO_DATE's handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
>     - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in grafana. [#18683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18683)
>     - Add unit tests for batch coprocessor [#18583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18583)
>     - Fix issues of TiDB version information formation doesn't consistent with PD/TiKV in cluster_info table. [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)
>     - Util/memory: warn potential deadlock for Consume in remove [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Define error code for errors [#8387](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8387)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Define error code for errors [#8387](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8387)
>     - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes

> Release date: August 10, 2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: August 11, 2020
```

        - Support the column flags [#796](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/796)
        - Support to output previous table info in ddl events [#799](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/799)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the performance of decodePlan for big union query [#18941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18941)
    - Reduce GC scan locks when meeting region cache miss [#18876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18876)
    - Ease the impact of stats feedback on cluster [#18772](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18772)
    - Support cancel before RPC response return. [#18580](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18580)
    - Add HTTP API to generate TiDB metric profile. [#18531](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18531)
    - Fix the partition table issue in table scatter API. [#17863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17863)
    - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in grafana.
    - Add runtime information for the batch-point-get executor [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)
    - Add executor runtime information for point-get. [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)

>     - Warn potential deadlock for Consume in remove [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Warn potential deadlock for Consume in remove [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)
    - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor. [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)
    - Refine the behavior of StrToInt and StrToFloat and support convert JSON to date, time and timestamp [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)
```

        - Optimize some logs [#352](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/352)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Check ErrTruncate/Overflow locally for builtinCastRealAsDecimalSig to fix the "should ensure all columns have the same length" error [#18967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18967)
    - Fix a encode bug causes the wrong result of hashJoin with set and enum [#18859](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18859)
    - Fix issue `pre_split_regions` table option doesn't work in the partition table. [#18837](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18837)
    - Fixed an issue that could cause a large transaction to be terminated prematurely. [#18813](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18813)
    - Fix incorrect collator when `getSignatureByPB` and remove unnecessary recover [#18735](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18735)
    - Fix a bug `getAutoIncrementID()` function does not consider the `tidb_snapshot` session variable, this bug may cause dumper tool fail with 'table not exist' error. [#18692](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18692)
    - Fix unknown column error for sql like `select a from t having t.a` [#18434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18434)

>     - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor. [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix a panic on hash partition table when the query condition is that the partition column equals to a big number like 9223372036854775808 [#18186](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18186)

>     - Refine the behavior of StrToInt and StrToFloat and support convert JSON to date, time and timestamp [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

+ TiKV

    - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
    - Speed up leader election when hibernate region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that TSO request may fail at the time of leader changing. [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)
    - Fix the issue that when enabling placement rules, sometimes region replicas cannot schedule to optimal [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters. [#971](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/971)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Fix a issue that failed changefeed can't be removed [#782](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/782)
        - Fix invalid delete evenets by selecting one unique index as the handle index [#787](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/787)

>         - Fix the bug that GC safepoint will be forwarded beyond the checkpoint of stopped changefeed [#797](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/797)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that GC safepoint will be forwarded beyond the checkpoint of stopped changefeed [#797](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/797)
        - Fix the bug that network io wait blocks task exits [#825](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/825)
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the performance of decodePlan for big union query [#18941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18941)
    - Reduce GC scan locks when meeting region cache miss [#18876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18876)
    - Ease the impact of stats feedback on cluster [#18772](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18772)
    - Support cancel before RPC response return. [#18580](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18580)
    - Add HTTP API to generate TiDB metric profile. [#18531](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18531)
    - Fix the partition table issue in table scatter API. [#17863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17863)
    - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in grafana.
    - Add runtime information for the batch-point-get executor [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)
    - Add executor runtime information for point-get. [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)
    - Warn potential deadlock for Consume in remove [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)
    - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor. [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)

>     - Refine the behavior of StrToInt and StrToFloat and support convert JSON to date, time and timestamp [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Refine the behavior of StrToInt and StrToFloat and support convert JSON to date, time and timestamp [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)
    - Avoid too many times of backoff when we retry for batch cop [18999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18999)
```

+ PD

    - Support scattering regions in stores with special engines (like TiFlash). [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2706)
    - Support Region HTTP API to promote regions schedule by given key range. [#2687](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2687)
    - Improve the leader distribution after region scatter. [#2684](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2684)
    - Add more tests and logs for TSO request. [#2678](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2678)
    - Avoid invalid cache updates after the leader of a region has changed. [#2672](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2672)

+ TiFlash

    - Add more Grafana panels, like CPU/IO/RAM usage, metrics about storage engine, etc.  [#965](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/965)
    - Reduce IO operations by optimizing Raft logs processing logic. [#960](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/960)
    - Accelerate regions schedule for blocked add partition ddl [#959](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/959)
    - Optimize compactions of delta data in DeltaTree to reduce read and write amplification [#952](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/952)

>     - Optimize applying snapshot by preprocessing under multi-thread. [#944](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/944)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the performance of applying region snapshots by preprocessing them under multi-threads. [#944](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/944)
```

    - Fix a bug `getAutoIncrementID()` function does not consider the `tidb_snapshot` session variable, this bug may cause dumper tool fail with 'table not exist' error. [#18692](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18692)
    - Fix unknown column error for sql like `select a from t having t.a` [#18434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18434)
    - Fix a panic on hash partition table when the query condition is that the partition column equals to a big number like 9223372036854775808 [#18186](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18186)
    - Fix the wrong behavior of char function. [#18122](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18122)
    - Ddl: fix admin repair table with range partition expr will parseInt fail [#17988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17988)
    - Fix wrong behavior of set charset statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)
    - Fix a bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of collation function. [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)
    - Fix STR_TO_DATE's handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)

>     - Fix issues of TiDB version information formation doesn't consistent with PD/TiKV in cluster_info table. [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix issues of TiDB version information formation doesn't consistent with PD/TiKV in cluster_info table. [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)
    - Fix the existence checks for pessimistic transactions. [19004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19004)
    - Fix union select for update race. [19006](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19006)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes

Release date: August 11, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.5

## Compatibility Changes

+ TiDB

    - Change drop partition and truncate partition's job args to support multi partition id array [#18930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18930)
    - Add delete only state for add partition replica check [#18865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18865)

## New Features

+ TiKV

    - Define error code for errors [#8387](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8387)

+ TiFlash

>     - Support unified log format [#977](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/977), [#978](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/978)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Support unified log format
```

    - Warn potential deadlock for Consume in remove [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)
    - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor. [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)
    - Refine the behavior of StrToInt and StrToFloat and support convert JSON to date, time and timestamp [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)
    - Avoid too many times of backoff when we retry for batch cop [#18999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18999)

+ PD

    - Support scattering regions in stores with special engines (like TiFlash). [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2706)
    - Support Region HTTP API to promote regions schedule by given key range. [#2687](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2687)
    - Improve the leader distribution after region scatter. [#2684](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2684)
    - Add more tests and logs for TSO request. [#2678](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2678)
    - Avoid invalid cache updates after the leader of a region has changed. [#2672](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2672)

+ TiFlash

>     - Add more Grafana panels, like CPU/IO/RAM usage, metrics about storage engine, etc.  [#965](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/965)
>     - Reduce IO operations by optimizing Raft logs processing logic. [#960](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/960)
>     - Accelerate regions schedule for blocked add partition ddl [#959](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/959)
>     - Optimize compactions of delta data in DeltaTree to reduce read and write amplification [#952](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/952)
>     - Optimize the performance of applying region snapshots by preprocessing them under multi-threads. [#944](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/944)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Add more Grafana panels, like CPU/IO/RAM usage, metrics about storage engine, etc.
    - Reduce IO operations by optimizing Raft logs processing logic.
    - Accelerate regions schedule for blocked add partition DDL.
    - Optimize compactions of delta data in DeltaTree to reduce read and write amplification.
    - Optimize the performance of applying region snapshots by preprocessing them under multi-threads.
```

    - Fix wrong behavior of set charset statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)
    - Fix a bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of collation function. [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)
    - Fix STR_TO_DATE's handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
    - Fix issues of TiDB version information formation doesn't consistent with PD/TiKV in cluster_info table. [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)
    - Fix the existence checks for pessimistic transactions. [#19004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19004)
    - Fix union select for update race. [#19006](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19006)

+ TiKV

    - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
    - Speed up leader election when hibernate region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that TSO request may fail at the time of leader changing. [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)

>     - Fix the issue that when enabling placement rules, sometimes region replicas cannot schedule to optimal [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when enabling placement rules, sometimes region replicas cannot schedule to optimal [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)
    - Fix the bug that balance-leader won't work when placement rule enabled [#2726](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2726)
```

Reviewer 6: add new row

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters. [#971](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/971)
>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters.
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization.
```

    - Fix a panic on hash partition table when the query condition is that the partition column equals to a big number like 9223372036854775808 [#18186](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18186)
    - Fix the wrong behavior of char function. [#18122](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18122)
    - Ddl: fix admin repair table with range partition expr will parseInt fail [#17988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17988)
    - Fix wrong behavior of set charset statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)
    - Fix a bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of collation function. [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)
    - Fix STR_TO_DATE's handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
    - Fix issues of TiDB version information formation doesn't consistent with PD/TiKV in cluster_info table. [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)
    - Fix the existence checks for pessimistic transactions. [#19004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19004)

>     - Fix union select for update race. [#19006](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19006)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix union select for update race. [#19006](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19006)
    - Fix the wrong query result when apply has a child of type PointGet. [#19046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19046)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes

Release date: August 11, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.5

## Compatibility Changes

+ TiDB

    - Change drop partition and truncate partition's job args to support multi partition id array [#18930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18930)
    - Add delete only state for add partition replica check [#18865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18865)

## New Features

+ TiKV

    - Define error code for errors [#8387](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8387)

+ TiFlash

>     - Support unified log format

Reviewer 7: - Support unified log format [#978](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/978)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Support Kafka SSL connection [#764](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/764)
        - Support outputting the old value [#708](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/708)
        - Add the column flags [#796](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/796)
        - Support outputting the DDL statements and table schema of the previous version [#799](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/799)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the performance of `DecodePlan` for big union queries [#18941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18941)

>     - Reduce GC scan locks when meeting Region cache miss [#18876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18876)

Reviewer 8: LGTM thx

    - Ease the impact of stats feedback on cluster [#18772](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18772)
    - Support cancel before RPC response return. [#18580](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18580)
    - Add HTTP API to generate TiDB metric profile. [#18531](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18531)
    - Fix the partition table issue in table scatter API. [#17863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17863)

>     - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in grafana.

Reviewer: @imtbkcat 这一条 note 不带 PR 吗？

>     - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in Grafana

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in Grafana. [#18679](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18679)
```

    - Add runtime information for the `batch-point-get` executor [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)
    - Add executor runtime information for point-get [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)
    - Warn potential deadlock for Consume in remove [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)
    - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)
    - Refine the behavior of StrToInt and StrToFloat and support convert JSON to date, time and timestamp [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)
    - Avoid too many times of backoff when we retry for batch cop [#18999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18999)

+ PD

    - Support scattering Regions in stores with special engines (like TiFlash) [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2706)

>     - Support Region HTTP API to promote Regions schedule by given key range [#2687](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2687)

Reviewer 9: LGTM @TomShawn

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Optimize some logs [#352](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/352)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Check `ErrTruncate/Overflow` locally for `builtinCastRealAsDecimalSig` to fix the `should ensure all columns have the same length` error [#18967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18967)
    - Fix issue that the `pre_split_regions` table option does not work in the partition table [#18837](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18837)
    - Fixe the issue that might cause a large transaction to be terminated prematurely [#18813](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18813)
    - Fix the incorrect collator when `getSignatureByPB` and remove unnecessary recover [#18735](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18735)
    - Fix a bug `getAutoIncrementID()` function does not consider the `tidb_snapshot` session variable, this bug might cause dumper tool fail with 'table not exist' error [#18692](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18692)
    - Fix unknown column error for sql like `select a from t having t.a` [#18434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18434)

>     - Fix a panic on hash partition table when the query condition is that the partition column equals to a big number like 9223372036854775808 [#18186](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18186)

Reviewer 10: Sounds reasonable

    - Fix the wrong behavior of char function [#18122](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18122)
    - Fix the issue that the `ADMIN REPAIR TABLE` statement cannot parse integer in the expressions on the range partition [#17988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17988)
    - Fix the wrong behavior of the `SET CHARSET` statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)
    - Fix the bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of the `collation` function [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)
    - Fix `STR_TO_DATE`'s handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
    - Fix issues that TiDB version information is not consistent with PD/TiKV in the `cluster_info` table [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)
    - Fix the existence checks for pessimistic transactions [#19004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19004)
    - Fix union select for update race [#19006](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19006)

>     - Fix the wrong query result when apply has a child of type PointGet [#19046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19046)

Reviewer: @XuHuaiyu PTAL
```suggestion
    - Fix the wrong query result when `apply` has a child of the `PointGet` operator [#19046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19046)
```

+ TiKV

>     - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the memory leak issue during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
```

    - Speed up leader election when Hibernate Region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)

+ PD

>     - Fix the bug that TSO request might fail at the time of leader changing [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that the TSO request might fail at the time of leader change [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)
```

>     - Fix the issue that when enabling placement rules, sometimes Region replicas cannot schedule to optimal [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that sometimes Region replicas cannot be scheduled to the optimal state when placement rules are enabled [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)
```

>     - Fix the bug that balance-leader won't work when placement rule enabled [#2726](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2726)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `Balance Leader` does not work when placement rules are enabled [#2726](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2726)
```

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters

Reviewer 7: - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters [#971](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/971)

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization

Reviewer 7: - Fix the issue that TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an earlier version if the name of the database or table contains special characters
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization
```

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the issue that the failed `changefeed` cannot be removed [#782](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/782)
        - Fix invalid `delete` events by selecting one unique index as the handle index [#787](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/787)

>         - Fix the bug that GC safepoint will be forwarded beyond the checkpoint of stopped `changefeed` [#797](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/797)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that GC safepoint is forwarded beyond the checkpoint of stopped `changefeed` [#797](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/797)
```

>         - Fix the bug that network io wait blocks task exits [#825](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/825)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that the network I/O waiting blocks tasks to exit [#825](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/825)
```

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix syntax error on empty binary/hex literals when using TiDB backend [#357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/357)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the syntax error on empty binary/hex literals when using TiDB backend [#357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/357)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes

> Release date: August 11, 2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: August 13, 2020
```

    - Avoid too many times of backoff when retrying the `batch cop` request [#18999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18999)

+ PD

    - Support scattering Regions in stores with special engines (like TiFlash) [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2706)
    - Support the Region HTTP API to prioritize Region scheduling of a given key range [#2687](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2687)
    - Improve the leader distribution after Region scattering [#2684](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2684)
    - Add more tests and logs for the TSO request [#2678](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2678)
    - Avoid invalid cache updates after the leader of a Region has changed [#2672](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2672)

+ TiFlash

    - Add more Grafana panels to display metrics of CPU, I/O, RAM usages and metrics of the storage engine
    - Reduce I/O operations by optimizing the processing logic of Raft logs
    - Accelerate Region scheduling for the blocked `add partition` DDL statement
    - Optimize compactions of delta data in DeltaTree to reduce read and write amplification

>     - Optimize the performance of applying Region snapshots by preprocessing the snapshots using multiple threads

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the performance of applying Region snapshots by preprocessing the snapshots using multiple threads
    - Optimize the number of unnecessary small files created when TiFlash restarts
    - Optimize the number of opening file descriptors when TiFlash read load is low to reduce system resource consumption
```

    - Add the HTTP API to generate the TiDB metric profile [#18531](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18531)
    - Support scattering partitioned tables [#17863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17863)
    - Add detailed memory usage of each instance in Grafana [#18679](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18679)
    - Show the detailed runtime information of the `BatchPointGet` executor in the result of `EXPLAIN` [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)
    - Show the detailed runtime information of the `PointGet` executor in the result of `EXPLAIN` [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)
    - Warn the potential deadlock for `Consume` in `remove()` [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)
    - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)
    - Refine the behaviors of `StrToInt` and `StrToFloat` and support converting JSON to the `date`, `time`, and `timestamp` types [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)
    - Support limiting the memory usage of the `TableReader` executor [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)

>     - Avoid too many times of backoff when retrying the `batch cop` request [#18999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18999)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Avoid too many times of backoff when retrying the `batch cop` request [#18999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18999)
    - Improve compatibility for `ALTER TABLE` algorithms [#19270](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19270)
    - Make single partition table support index join on the inner side [#19151](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19151)
    - Support search the log file even it includes some invalid lines [#18579](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18579)
```

+ PD

>     - Support scattering Regions in stores with special engines (like TiFlash) [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2706)
>     - Support the Region HTTP API to prioritize Region scheduling of a given key range [#2687](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2687)
>     - Improve the leader distribution after Region scattering [#2684](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2684)
>     - Add more tests and logs for the TSO request [#2678](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2678)
>     - Avoid invalid cache updates after the leader of a Region has changed [#2672](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2672)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Support scattering Regions in stores with special engines (like TiFlash) [#2706](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2706)
    - Support the Region HTTP API to prioritize Region scheduling of a given key range [#2687](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2687)
    - Improve the leader distribution after Region scattering [#2684](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2684)
    - Add more tests and logs for the TSO request [#2678](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2678)
    - Avoid invalid cache updates after the leader of a Region has changed [#2672](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2672)
    - Add option to allow `store.GetLimit` include tombstone stores [#2743](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2743)
    - Support synchronize region leaders between PD leader and followers [#2795](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2795)
    - Add GC safepoint service commands [#2797](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2797)
    - Replace `region.Clone` in filters to improve performance [#2801](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2801)
    - Add option to disable region flow cache updates to improve performance [#2848](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2848)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Add more Grafana panels to display metrics of CPU, I/O, RAM usages and metrics of the storage engine
    - Reduce I/O operations by optimizing the processing logic of Raft logs
    - Accelerate Region scheduling for the blocked `add partition` DDL statement
    - Optimize compactions of delta data in DeltaTree to reduce read and write amplification

>     - Optimize the performance of `apply` by preprocessing the snapshots using multiple threads

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the performance of applying Region snapshots by preprocessing the snapshots using multiple threads
```
Revert some unexpected modifications.

    - Optimize the number of opening file descriptors when the read load of TiFlash is low to reduce system resource consumption

>     - Optimize the number of unnecessary small files created when TiFlash restarts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the number of unnecessary small files created when TiFlash restarts
    - Support encryption at rest for data storage
    - Support TLS for data transfer
```

> 

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Support encryption at rest for data storage
    - Support TLS for data transferring

```

    - Fix the wrong behavior of the `char` function [#18122](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18122)
    - Fix the issue that the `ADMIN REPAIR TABLE` statement cannot parse integer in the expressions on the range partition [#17988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17988)
    - Fix the wrong behavior of the `SET CHARSET` statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)
    - Fix the bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of the `collation` function [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)
    - Fix the issue that `STR_TO_DATE`'s handling of the format tokens '%r', '%h' is inconsistent with that of MySQL [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
    - Fix issues that the TiDB version information is inconsistent with that of PD/TiKV in the `cluster_info` table [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)
    - Fix the existent checks for pessimistic transactions [#19004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19004)
    - Fix the issue that executing `union select for update` might cause concurrent race [#19006](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19006)

>     - Fix the wrong query result when `apply` has a child of the `PointGet` operator [#19046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19046)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the wrong query result when `apply` has a child of the `PointGet` operator [#19046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19046)
    - Fix incorrect results when there is an IndexLookUp under the inner side of an Apply [#19496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19496)
    - Fix incorrect result of anti-semi-join query [#19472](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19472)
    - Fix wrong result caused by mistaken usage of batch point get [#19456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19456)
    - Fix incorrect result when UnionScan is under the inner side of Apply [#19447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19447)
    - Fix panic of command `EXECUTE` when printing an expensive query log [#17419](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17419)
    - Fix index join error when join key is ENUM or SET [#19235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19235)
    - Fix build range error when `NULL` value on index column [#19358](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19358)
    - Fix data race caused by update global config [#17964](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17964)
    - Fix a schema charset modification panic bug in an uppercase schema [#19286](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19286)
    - Fix unexpected error when spilling disk [#18970](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18970)
    - Fix wrong hash key for decimal type [#19131](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19131)
    - Fix PointGet and BatchPointGet do not consider partition selection grammar and get incorrect results. [#19141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/19141)
    - Fix incorrect results using apply operator together with union scan operator [#19104](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/19104)
    - Fix a bug causes indexed virtual generated column return wrong value and refine admin check table [#17989](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/17989)
    - Add lock for runtime stats to fix panic caused by concurrent execution [#18983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18983)
    - Check ErrTruncate/Overflow locally for builtinCastRealAsDecimalSig to fix the "should ensure all columns have the same length" error [#18961](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18961)
```

+ TiKV

    - Fix the memory leak issue during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
    - Speed up leader election when Hibernate Region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)

+ PD

>     - Fix the bug that the TSO request might fail at the time of leader change [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)
>     - Fix the issue that sometimes Region replicas cannot be scheduled to the optimal state when placement rules are enabled [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)
>     - Fix the issue that `Balance Leader` does not work when placement rules are enabled [#2726](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2726)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that the TSO request might fail at the time of leader change [#2666](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2666)
    - Fix the issue that sometimes Region replicas cannot be scheduled to the optimal state when placement rules are enabled [#2720](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2720)
    - Fix the issue that `Balance Leader` does not work when placement rules are enabled [#2726](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2726)
    - Fix the issue that unhealthy stores are not filtered in store load statistics [#2805](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2805)
```

    - Fix the panic issue occurs when modifying the character set in an uppercase schema [#19286](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19286)
    - Fix an unexpected error caused by changing the temporary directory during the disk spill action [#18970](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18970)
    - Fix the wrong hash key for the decimal type [#19131](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19131)
    - Fix the issue that the `PointGet` and `BatchPointGet` operators do not consider the partition selection syntax and get incorrect results [#19141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/19141)
    - Fix the incorrect results when using the `Apply` operator together with the `UnionScan` operator [#19104](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/19104)
    - Fix the bug that causes the indexed virtual generated column to return wrong value [#17989](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/17989)
    - Add the lock for runtime statistics to fix a panic caused by concurrent execution [#18983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18983)

+ TiKV

    - Speed up leader election when Hibernate Region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)

>     - Fix the memory leak issue during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)

Reviewer 13: - Add hibernate-timeout config to prevent leader become hibernated too fast [#8208](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8208)

>     - Fix the memory leak issue during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the memory leak issue during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
    - Add the `hibernate-timeout` configuration item to prevent the leader from becoming hibernate too fast [#8208](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8208)
```

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that the TSO request might fail at the time of leader change [#2666](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2666)
    - Fix the issue that sometimes Region replicas cannot be scheduled to the optimal state when placement rules are enabled [#2720](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2720)
    - Fix the issue that `Balance Leader` does not work when placement rules are enabled [#2726](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2726)
    - Fix the issue that unhealthy stores are not filtered from store load statistics [#2805](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2805)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an earlier version if the name of the database or table contains special characters
    - Fix the issue that the TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization

+ Tools

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that total kv and total bytes calculate duplicate in backup summary log [#472](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/472)
        - Fix the issue that switch to import mode not work at first 5 minutes [#473](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/473)

    + Dumpling

        - Fix the issue that FTWRL lock is not released in time [#128](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/128)

```

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the issue that the failed `changefeed` cannot be removed [#782](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/782)
        - Fix invalid `delete` events by selecting one unique index as the handle index [#787](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/787)
        - Fix the bug that GC safepoint is forwarded beyond the checkpoint of stopped `changefeed` [#797](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/797)
        - Fix the bug that the network I/O waiting blocks tasks to exit [#825](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/825)

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that some unnecessary data may be replicated to downstream [#743](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/743)

```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes

> Release date: August 13, 2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: August 28, 2020
```

        - Support outputting the old value [#708](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/708)
        - Add the column flags [#796](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/796)
        - Support outputting the DDL statements and table schema of the previous version [#799](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/799)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the performance of `DecodePlan` for big union queries [#18941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18941)
    - Reduce the number of GC lock scans when meeting the `Region cache miss` error [#18876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18876)
    - Ease the impact of statistical feedback on cluster performance [#18772](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18772)
    - Support canceling operations before the RPC response is returned [#18580](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18580)
    - Add the HTTP API to generate the TiDB metric profile [#18531](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18531)
    - Support scattering partitioned tables [#17863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17863)
    - Add detailed memory usage of each instance in Grafana [#18679](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18679)

>     - Show the detailed runtime information of the `BatchPointGet` executor in the result of `EXPLAIN` [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Show the detailed runtime information of the `BatchPointGet` operator in the result of `EXPLAIN` [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)
```

>     - Show the detailed runtime information of the `PointGet` executor in the result of `EXPLAIN` [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Show the detailed runtime information of the `PointGet` operator in the result of `EXPLAIN` [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)
```

    - Warn the potential deadlock for `Consume` in `remove()` [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)

>     - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Refine the behaviors of `StrToInt` and `StrToFloat` and support converting JSON to the `date`, `time`, and `timestamp` types [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)

>     - Support limiting the memory usage of the `TableReader` executor [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Support limiting the memory usage of the `TableReader` operator [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)
```

    - Avoid too many times of backoff when retrying the `batch cop` request [#18999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18999)
    - Improve compatibility for `ALTER TABLE` algorithms [#19270](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19270)
    - Make the single partitioned table support `IndexJoin` on the inner side [#19151](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19151)
    - Support searching the log file even when the log includes invalid lines [#18579](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18579)

+ PD

>     - Support scattering Regions in stores with special engines (like TiFlash) [#2706](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2706)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Support scattering Regions in stores with special engines (such as TiFlash) [#2706](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/2706)
```

    - Fix the issue that `STR_TO_DATE`'s handling of the format tokens '%r', '%h' is inconsistent with that of MySQL [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
    - Fix issues that the TiDB version information is inconsistent with that of PD/TiKV in the `cluster_info` table [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)
    - Fix the existent checks for pessimistic transactions [#19004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19004)
    - Fix the issue that executing `union select for update` might cause concurrent race [#19006](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19006)
    - Fix the wrong query result when `apply` has a child of the `PointGet` operator [#19046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19046)
    - Fix the incorrect result that occurs when `IndexLookUp` is in the inner side of the `Apply` operator [#19496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19496)
    - Fix the incorrect result of `anti-semi-join` queries [#19472](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19472)
    - Fix the incorrect result caused by the mistaken usage of `BatchPointGet` [#19456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19456)

>     - Fix the incorrect result that occurs when `UnionScan` is in the inner side of the `Apply` operator [#19447](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19447)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the incorrect result that occurs when `UnionScan` is in the inner side of the `Apply` operator [#19496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19496)
```

    - Fix the panic caused by using the `EXECUTE` statement to print an expensive query log [#17419](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17419)
    - Fix the index join error when the join key is `ENUM` or `SET` [#19235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19235)
    - Fix the issue that the query range cannot be built when the `NULL` value exists on the index column [#19358](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19358)
    - Fix the data race issue caused by updating the global configuration [#17964](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17964)

>     - Fix the panic issue caused when modifying the character set in an uppercase schema [#19286](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19286)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue occurs when modifying the character set in an uppercase schema [#19286](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19286)
```

    - Fix an unexpected error caused by changing the temporary directory during the disk spill action [#18970](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18970)
    - Fix the wrong hash key for the decimal type [#19131](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19131)
    - Fix the issue that the `PointGet` and `BatchPointGet` operators do not consider the partition selection syntax and get incorrect results [#19141](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/19141)
    - Fix the incorrect results when using the `Apply` operator together with the `UnionScan` operator [#19104](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/19104)
    - Fix the bug that causes the indexed virtual generated column to return wrong value [#17989](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/17989)
    - Add the lock for runtime statistics to fix a panic caused by concurrent execution [#18983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18983)

>     - Check `ErrTruncate`/`Overflow` locally for `builtinCastRealAsDecimalSig` to fix the `should ensure all columns have the same length` error [#18961](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18961)

Reviewer: @imtbkcat This note is duplicated with https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/3541/files#diff-406835cc973c1fb2e4f587bcf50e888dR106

Reviewer 2: yes, so this line should be removed

>     - Check `ErrTruncate`/`Overflow` locally for `builtinCastRealAsDecimalSig` to fix the `should ensure all columns have the same length` error [#18961](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18961)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+ TiKV

>     - Fix the memory leak issue during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
>     - Speed up leader election when Hibernate Region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Speed up leader election when Hibernate Region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)
    - Fix the memory leak issue during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an earlier version if the name of the database or table contains special characters
    - Fix the issue that the TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue of duplicated calculation of total KV and total bytes in the backup summary log [#472](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/472)
        - Fix the issue that the import mode does not work in the first 5 minutes after switching to this mode [#473](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/473)

    + Dumpling

        - Fix the issue that FTWRL lock is not released in time [#128](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/128)

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the issue that the failed `changefeed` cannot be removed [#782](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/782)
        - Fix invalid `delete` events by selecting one unique index as the handle index [#787](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/787)
        - Fix the bug that GC safepoint is forwarded beyond the checkpoint of stopped `changefeed` [#797](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/797)

>         - Fix the bug that the network I/O waiting blocks tasks to exit [#825](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/825)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that the network I/O waiting blocks tasks to exit [#825](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/825)
        - Fix the bug that some unnecessary data might be mistakenly replicated to the downstream [#743](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/743)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes

> Release date: August 28, 2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: August 31, 2020
```

TiDB version: 4.0.5

## Compatibility Changes

+ TiDB

    - Change `drop partition` and `truncate partition`'s job arguments to support the ID array of multiple partitions [#18930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18930)
    - Add the delete-only state for checking `add partition` replicas [#18865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18865)

## New Features

+ TiKV

    - Define error code for errors [#8387](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8387)

+ TiFlash

    - Support the unified log format with TiDB

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Support Kafka SSL connection [#764](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/764)
        - Support outputting the old value [#708](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/708)
        - Add the column flags [#796](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/796)
        - Support outputting the DDL statements and table schema of the previous version [#799](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/799)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the performance of `DecodePlan` for big union queries [#18941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18941)

>     - Reduce the number of GC lock scans when meeting the `Region cache miss` error [#18876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18876)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Reduce the number of GC lock scans when the `Region cache miss` error occurs [#18876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18876)
```

    - Ddl: fix admin repair table with range partition expr will parseInt fail [#17988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17988)
    - Fix wrong behavior of set charset statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)
    - Fix a bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of collation function. [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)
    - Fix STR_TO_DATE's handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
    - Fix issues of TiDB version information formation doesn't consistent with PD/TiKV in cluster_info table. [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that TSO request may fail at the time of leader changing. [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)
    - Fix the issue that when enabling placement rules, sometimes region replicas cannot schedule to optimal [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)

    
+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters. [#971](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/971)

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash can not exit if any exception is thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash process can not exit if any exceptions are thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)
```

    
+ TiKV

    - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)

>     - Speed up leader election when hibernate region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Speed up leader election when hibernate region is enabled [#8292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8292)

# TiCDC

## New Features

- Support Kafka SSL connection [#764](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/764)
- Support to output old value [#708](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/708)

## Improvements

- Optimize get tso frequency [#801](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/801)

## Bug Fixes

- Fix a issue that failed changefeed can't be removed [#782](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/782)
- Fix invalid delete evenets by selecting one unique index as the handle index [#787](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/787)
- Fix the bug that GC safepoint will be forwarded beyond the checkpoint of stopped changefeed [#797](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/797)

# BR

## Improvements

- Optimize some log [#428](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/428)

# Dumpling

## Improvements

- Release FTWRL after connections are created to reduce lock time for mysql [#121](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/121)

# TiDB-Lightning

## Improvements

- Optimize some log [#352](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/352)

## Bug Fixes

- Fix syntax error on empty binary/hex literals when using TiDB backend [#357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/357)

```

Reviewer: @overvenus Please add these notes to the `## Improvements`, `## Bug Fixes`, and `New Features` sections respectively.

Reviewer 7: ticdc Features need add two：
Support the column flags [#796](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/796)
Support to output previous table info in ddl events [#799](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/799)

Reviewer: @uglyengineer @overvenus Added in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/3541/commits/7fc428457585806f8ae17121e4ebddf1e5a8e3e0

---
title: TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes

Release date: August 10, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.5

## Compatibility Changes

+ TiDB

    - Change drop partition and truncate partition's job args to support multi partition id array [#18930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18930)
    - Add delete only state for add partition replica check [#18865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18865)

## New Features

+ TiFlash

>     - Support standard error code [#978](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/978)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Support unified log format [#977](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/977), [#978](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/978)
```

    - Fix the partition table issue in table scatter API. [#17863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17863)
    - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in grafana.
    - Add runtime information for the batch-point-get executor [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)
    - Add executor runtime information for point-get. [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)
    - Warn potential deadlock for Consume in remove [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)

+ PD

    - Support scattering regions in stores with special engines (like TiFlash). [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2706)
    - Support Region HTTP API to promote regions schedule by given key range. [#2687](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2687)
    - Improve the leader distribution after region scatter. [#2684](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2684)
    - Add more tests and logs for TSO request. [#2678](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2678)
    - Avoid invalid cache updates after the leader of a region has changed. [#2672](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2672)

+ TiFlash

>     - Feature: support unified log format [#977](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/977)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

>     - Add some panels about IO operations on Grafana [#965](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/965)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Add more Grafana panels, like CPU/IO/RAM usage, metrics about storage engine, etc.  [#965](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/965)
```

>     - Optimize `IngestSst` by reducing persisting uncommitted region data. [#960](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/960)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Reduce IO operations by optimizing Raft logs processing logic. [#960](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/960)
```

    - Accelerate regions schedule for blocked add partition ddl [#959](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/959)

>     - Optimize the process of DeltaTree's delta data compaction to reduce unnecessary read and write amplification [#952](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/952)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Optimize compactions of delta data in DeltaTree to reduce read and write amplification [#952](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/952)
```

    - Ddl: fix admin repair table with range partition expr will parseInt fail [#17988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17988)
    - Fix wrong behavior of set charset statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)
    - Fix a bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of collation function. [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)
    - Fix STR_TO_DATE's handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
    - Fix issues of TiDB version information formation doesn't consistent with PD/TiKV in cluster_info table. [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that TSO request may fail at the time of leader changing. [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)
    - Fix the issue that when enabling placement rules, sometimes region replicas cannot schedule to optimal [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)

    
+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters. [#971](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/971)

>     - Fix bug: tiflash can not exit if any exception is thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash can not exit if any exception is thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)
```

Reviewer 5: Duplicated with the comment below.

>     - Fix bug: tiflash can not exit if any exception is thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash process can not stop if any exceptions are thrown during starting up [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.5 Release Notes

Release date: August 10, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.5

## Compatibility Changes

+ TiDB

    - Change drop partition and truncate partition's job args to support multi partition id array [#18930](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18930)
    - Add delete only state for add partition replica check [#18865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18865)

## New Features

+ TiFlash

    - Support standard error code [#978](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/978)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ TiKV
     - Define error code for errors [#8387](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8387)
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the performance of decodePlan for big union query [#18941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18941)
    - Reduce GC scan locks when meeting region cache miss [#18876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18876)
    - Ease the impact of stats feedback on cluster [#18772](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18772)
    - Support cancel before RPC response return. [#18580](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18580)
    - Add HTTP API to generate TiDB metric profile. [#18531](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18531)

>     - Fix the partition table issue in table scatter API. [#17863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17863)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the partition table issue in table scatter API. [#17863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17863)
    - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in grafana.
```

    - Support the Action when memory exceed quota for TableReader Executor. [#18392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18392)
    - Fix a panic on hash partition table when the query condition is that the partition column equals to a big number like 9223372036854775808 [#18186](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18186)
    - Refine the behavior of StrToInt and StrToFloat and support convert JSON to date, time and timestamp [#18159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18159)
    - Fix the wrong behavior of char function. [#18122](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18122)
    - Ddl: fix admin repair table with range partition expr will parseInt fail [#17988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17988)
    - Fix wrong behavior of set charset statement [#17289](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17289)
    - Fix a bug caused by the wrong collation setting which leads to the wrong result of collation function. [#17231](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17231)

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that TSO request may fail at the time of leader changing. [#2666](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2666)

> 

Reviewer 6: add:
```
- Fix the issue that when enabling placement rules, sometimes region replicas cannot schedule to optimal. [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2720)
```

Reviewer: Added.

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot start normally after upgrading from an old version if the name of the database or table contains special characters. [#971](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/971)
    - Fix bug: tiflash can not exit if any exception is thrown during initialization [#953](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/953)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ TiKV
    - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
```

    - When introduced in v4.0.3, `allow_auto_random_explicit_insert` could be set only for the SESSION scope. It can now be set also for the GLOBAL scope. [#18911](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18911)
    - Add runtime information for the batch-point-get executor [#18892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18892)
    - Add executor runtime information for point-get. [#18817](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18817)
    - Executor: modify the default value of actRows to be 0 instead of empty [#18806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18806)
    - Types: fix STR_TO_DATE's handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18727)
    - Add detailed memory usage for each instance in grafana. [#18683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18683)
    - Add unit tests for batch coprocessor [#18583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18583)
    - Fix issues of TiDB version information formation doesn't consistent with PD/TiKV in cluster_info table. [#18413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18413)
    - Util/memory: warn potential deadlock for Consume in remove [#18395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18395)

+ TiKV

>     - Define error code for errors [#8387](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8387)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Define error code for errors [#8387](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8387)
```

>     - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8357](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8357)
```
